---
title: Arduino Trinkets and Neopixels
layout: post
---

If you aren't familiar, the Arduino Trinket is a super tiny and inexpensive microprocessor that you can program in a C-like language with a standard Android micro usb cable.  It only has a few digital transistor outputs that you can control, so it can't control tons of traditional LEDs or other electronic devices.  

However, those transistors can change state really fast.  No, REALLY fast.  Neopixels are LEDs with small microchips inside that can read 'packets' of data sent to them over a linear databus.  This means you can string tons of them in row and control them all with only a few wires!

This means you can do some really cool junk once you download the Neopixel libraries for Arduino!  In your code, you can set the RGB value of any Neopixel, with something like this:

int pixelIndex = 1;

pixels.setPixelColor(pixelIndex, pixels.Color(225,25,25));

 Which would make LED #1 glow a nice, bright red color! I created a few arduino projects and I will continue to make more as inspiration hits me in the face.
 
 
 To upload my program to the Trinket for the first time, I had to find the Trinkets Windows Signed Drivers and also follow this guide: https://learn.adafruit.com/introducing-trinket/starting-the-bootloader.  I ran the driver .EXE in the trinket driver folder.  Once I did that, the trinket showed up in the Device Manager with the corrent name, but still had a yellow mark on it  - an issue.   I right clicked on it and opened 'Update Drivers'.  I chose the install the Signed Arduino Trinket Drivers (TinyUSB drivers) and BOOM! The yellow mark went away and I was able to follow the rest of Adafruits guide to upload program.
